# BIG DATA
* [Big Data Characteristics](#big-data-characteristics)
* [Types Of Big Data](#types-of-big-data)
 - [Structured Data](#structured-data)
 - [Unstructured Data](#unstuctured-data)
 - [Semi Structured Data](#semi-structured-data)

Big data is the collection of data sets so large and complex to process using on-hand database management tools or traditional data processing application.

The challenges include capture, curation, storage, search, sharing, transfer, analysis, and visualization.

**IBM Definition for BIG DATA**
Big data is a term applied to data sets whose size or type is beyond the ability of traditional relational databases to capture, manage, and process the data with low-latency. And it has one or more of the following characteristics – high volume, high velocity, or high variety. Big data comes from sensors, devices, video/audio, networks, log files, transactional applications, web, and social media - much of it generated in real time and in a very large scale.

Analyzing big data allows analysts, researchers, and business users to make better and faster decisions using data that was previously inaccessible or unusable. Using advanced analytics techniques such as text analytics, machine learning, predictive analytics, data mining, statistics, and natural language processing, businesses can analyze previously untapped data sources independent or together with their existing enterprise data to gain new insights resulting in better and faster decisions

## Big Data Characteristics

The five characteristics that define Big Data is Volume, Velocity, Variety, Veracity and Value.

https://www.edureka.co/blog/big-data-tutorial

Volume refers to the ‘amount of data’, which is growing day by day at a very fast pace. The size of data generated by humans, machines and their interactions on social media itself is massive.


Velocity is defined as the pace at which different sources generate the data every day. This flow of data is massive and continuous

Veracity refers to the data in doubt or uncertainty of data available due to data inconsistency and incompleteness.

After discussing Volume, Velocity, Variety and Veracity, there is another V that should be taken into account when looking at Big Data i.e. Value. It is all well and good to have access to big data but unless we can turn it into value it is useless

## Types Of Big Data

Big data could be of three types

* Structured
* Semi-Structured
* Unstructured

## Structured Data
The data that has a fixed schema is knowm as Structured Data. Examples of Structured Data are the data stored in RDBMS.
Processing the Structured data is Very simple as it has fixed schema. SQL is oftrn used to manage this kind of data.

**RDMS is Schema on write** i.e When we try to insert or write data to RDBMS tables first it will check the schema before insering for validating.

Where as **Hadoop is Schema on Read** - 
Reason for Hadoop not being Schema on write because of the reason that data we are going to write is very huge,if we have to validate this huge data the writing will be slower into hadoop and its not the case where data is always structured.

## Unstructured Data

The data which have unknown form and cannot be stored in RDBMS and cannot be analyzed unless it is transformed into a structured format is called as unstructured data. Text Files and multimedia contents like images, audios, videos are example of unstructured data. The unstructured data is growing quicker than others, experts say that 80 percent of the data in an organization are unstructured. 


## Semi Structured Data

Data which is partially structured. XML files or JSON documents are examples of semi-structured data.




